# AntiSensing-Defense_against_Unauthorised_Radar_Sensing
Anti-Sensing: Defense against Unauthorized Radar-based Human Vital Sign Sensing with Physically Realizable Wearable Oscillators

## Abstract

Recent advancements in Ultra-Wideband (UWB)
radar technology have enabled contactless, non-line-of-sight
vital sign monitoring, making it a valuable tool for healthcare.
However, UWB radarâ€™s ability to capture sensitive physiological
data, even through walls, raises significant privacy concerns,
particularly in human-robot interactions and autonomous systems
that rely on radar for sensing human presence and physiological
functions. In this paper, we present Anti-Sensing, a novel
defense mechanism designed to prevent unauthorized radarbased
sensing. Our approach introduces physically realizable
perturbations, such as oscillatory motion from wearable devices,
to disrupt radar sensing by mimicking natural cardiac motion,
thereby misleading heart rate (HR) estimations. We develop a
gradient-based algorithm to optimize the frequency and spatial
amplitude of these oscillations for maximal disruption while ensuring
physiological plausibility. Through both simulations and
real-world experiments with radar data and neural networkbased
HR sensing models, we demonstrate the effectiveness of
Anti-Sensing in significantly degrading model accuracy, offering
a practical solution for privacy preservation.
